---
layout: experience
title:  "The Weather Network"
date:   2015-09-05
categories: jobs
role:	"R&D Software Developer (iOS/Web)"
thumbnail: "twn_card.png"
permalink: /experience/twn/
---
|                      |
| :------------ | :-------------- |
| Date:      | __May 2015 to September 2015__ |
| Website:     |    __[Radar Map][twn-radar]{:target="_blank"}__   |
| Languages:  | `Objective-C`, `Swift`, `JavaScript` |
| Technologies Used: |  {::nomarkdown}<ul><li>CoreLocation</li><li>Apple Maps</li><li>UIKit</li><li>WebGL</li><li>THREE.js</li></ul>{:/} |
| Tools Used: |  {::nomarkdown}<ul><li>Xcode</li><li>GeoJSON</li></ul>{:/} |

### Overview

The Weather Network is a leader in providing Canadian's with accurate weather forecasts. As part of this, The Weather Network is always looking for ways to improve their product offering for their customers. One such product is their precipitation radar product. Traditionally, radar products made use of raster photos and animated them at intervals of 15-30 minutes. This resulting in choppy movement between frames, which is undesirable. The main project that I worked on focused on vectorizing the precitipation so that the radar images could be animated smoothly.

### Responsibilities

In this role, I took over the iOS project for the vectorization of the radar. Further, working with 2 other coops, we were responsible for the web mobile and backend implementation of the vectorization. Additionally, we were responsible for presenting our work to the director of Product Developement as well as the CTO and COO of Pelmorex Media. Finally, towards the end of the term when the next group of coop students arrived, I was responsible for getting them up to speed on the work that we had done so that they could continue the project.

### Challenges

As this was my first job with iOS, I spent a good portion of it learning the iOS framework and design patterns. Further, the last month of my workterm had me working on WebGL and THREE.js shaders to implement overlays for different types of precipitation (rain, snow and ice).

### Lessons Learned

- Working as a team involves thinking about how to make others lives easier. If someone needs help, 3 minds working on the problem will likely solve it quicker than 1. 

### Features Worked On

- iOS implementation of the vector radar product
- Developing shaders to allow overlays for different types of preciptiation


<!-- Jekyll also offers powerful support for code snippets:

{% highlight swift %}
 override func viewDidLoad() {
        super.viewDidLoad()
        tv.delegate = self
        tv.dataSource = self

        tv.alwaysBounceVertical = false
        
        nextViewControllerButton.enabled = false
        nextViewControllerButton.alpha = 0.5
        // Do any additional setup after loading the view.
    }
{% endhighlight %} -->

[twn-radar]: https://www.theweathernetwork.com/ca/maps/satellite-radar
