---
layout: project
title:  "Porter Airlines Flight Visualization"
date:   2017-01-19
categories: projects
thumbnail: "fv_card.png"
description: "Data visualization of flights in one day"
permalink: /projects/flight-visualization/
---
|                      |
| :------------ | :-------------- |
| First Commit:      | __February 2016__ |
| Website:     |    __[Website][web]{:target="_blank"}, [Github][gh]{:target="_blank"}__   |
| Languages:  | `Python`, `JavaScript` |
| Technologies Used: |  __{::nomarkdown}<ul><li>JavaScript: Google Maps API's</li><li>Python: Beautiful Soup</li></ul>{:/}__ |
| Tools Used: |  __{::nomarkdown}<ul><li>Google Maps Styling</li></ul>{:/}__ |

### Problem

I like data visualizations and in avaition there are a few cools ones that show how air traffic moves around the world. One weekend during a coop term I was a bit bored and decided to try my hand at creating one. I've often wondered why no one has created a visualization of an flights that is interactive. Sort of like this one but interactive so that users can zoom in and out and move around.

{::nomarkdown}<iframe style="display:block;" src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/98941796" width="640" height="360" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe>{:/}

I've seen a few visualizations using THREE.js but the maps are not the best. I wanted to try making one with Google Maps so that users could have a good map based to see exactly where flights are flying over.

### Goals

Implement an interactive visualization of flights using Google Maps.

### Outcome

One of the most challenging aspects of this project was finding a way to get data of historical flights. Unfortunately, the best solution that I could come up with was to brute force read through the html from [Flight Aware][fa-poe936]{:target="_blank"}. Although this worked, it wasn't as easy as I hoped and it is fairly easy for my script to break if Flight Aware changes the way they display data. Having said this, I was able to extract the data, display it to a Google Map and animate the data allowing users to see the flights and be able to interact with it. I would love to spend more time extending this project to take multiple airlines at once and make it easier for users to learn more about specific flights.

[gh]: https://github.com/nkanetka/Flight-Visualization
[web]: http://nkanetka.github.io/Flight-Visualization/
[fa-poe936]: https://flightaware.com/live/flight/POE936/history/20170120/1205Z/KBOS/CYTZ/tracklog
